---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.3.10 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

A release with improvements in a number of modules, with some last-minute delay
due to weirdness in the unit-tests.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by given name):
 - Aaron Rainbolt
 - Adriaan de Groot
 - Evan James
 - Neal Gompa

## Core ##
 - Support for "rwx"-style permissions-strings everywhere permissions are written.
   Previously only octal was accepted (e.g. "755") but you can now write the
   permissions out like they would be reported by `ls` (e.g. "rwxr-xr-x").

## Modules ##
 - *keyboard* Repaired summary messages with strange formatting. (#2364)
 - *keyboard* Can update KDE Plasma configuration in Wayland. (thanks Neal, #2264)
 - *locale* Repaired summary messages with strange formatting. (#2364)
 - *partition* Module fixed unwanted behavior with the encryption checkbox. (thanks Aaron, #2376)
 - *umount* Correctly unmounts the root filesystem of the target. (thanks Evan)
 - *users* Supports a new `home_permissions` setting to override the
   distro's `useradd` configuration of the umask. Supports octal and rwx-style
   specifications of permissions. Other places that use permissions now also
   support octal and rwx-style. (#2362)
 - *welcome* Follows system styling colors (e.g. Dark Mode).


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, see
the full list of [issues closed][2] within the current generation (which is many releases).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/83
