---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.3.7 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---


A release mostly intended to get the process moving again, although it has a few new features and some bugfixes. Since 3.3.6 did not get a release announcement, that is included in this post as well.


<!--more-->

> What does "get the process moving" mean?
> Well, it's been two months since the last release, and planning the release
> for "when this issue is fixed" -- whatever I happen to be working on --
> is taking too long. There are a couple of tough bugs to investigate,
> but they should not hold up progress on other fronts.

# Calamares 3.3.7 (2024-06-20)

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Adriaan de Groot
 - Eugene San
 - Evan James
 - Ivan Borzenkov
 - Sohrab Behdani
 - Vincent Penvern
 - Vladislav Nepogodin

## Core ##
 - Updated clang-formatting
 - Some C++20 future-proofing (thanks Vladislav)
 - CommandList (used by *contextualprocess* and *shellprocess*) now supports
   globalstorage keys as substitutable variables.

## Modules ##
 - *contextualprocess* see *shellprocess*.
 - *fstab* module does not add an encryption keyfile if it does
   not exist. (thanks Eugene)
 - *initcpiocfg* has some new configuration settings to more carefully
   adjust hooks for initcpio.
 - *keyboard* module handles Persian (fa) layout better. (thanks Sohrab)
 - *keyboard* module handles other non-ascii layout better. (thanks Ivan)
 - *partition* module did not filter out invalid fstab entries;
   they were not written, either, so no net change.
 - *partition* module now has a configurable default check-state
   for the encryption checkbox. (thanks Vincent)
 - *shellprocess* commands now support globalstorage variables, which
   are written as `${gs[key]}`, where `key` is a dotted string that
   selects the globalstorage key to use (like in *contextualprocess*
   variable-selectors) and `${gs[` and `]}` are literal characters.


# Calamares 3.3.6 (2024-04-16)

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by first name):
 - Adriaan de Groot
 - Anke Boersma
 - Eugene San
 - Evan James
 - Harald Sitter
 - Mike Stemle
 - Peter Jung
 - Simon Quigley

## Core ##
 - Various Qt6-related fixes.
 - Calamares now prevents sleep and suspend while the installation is
   running, so that unattended installs do not accidentally fall asleep.

## Modules ##
 - *bootloader* Adds "splash" to kernel parameters if plymouth is present.
   (thanks Eugene)
 - *locale* Now picks the correct timezone for Dubai, Muscat, Tehran.
 - *plymouthcfg* Use plymouth-set-default-theme to avoid issues with
   configuration. (thanks Peter)
 - *users* module now supports enrolling in Active Directory, if enabled.
   (thanks Simon)


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, see
the full list of [issues closed][2] within the current generation (which is many releases).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/83
