---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Calamares 3.3.14 released"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

First of 2025, with a bunch of internal improvements in the Python bindings, an undo-hook for pages (which rolls back changes that the keyboard and timezone pages may have made to the system) and improvements to the *partition* module.

<!--more-->

This release contains contributions from (alphabetically by given name):
 - Adriaan de Groot
 - Evan James
 - TNE
 - vincent PENVERN

## Core ##
 - The Python bindings have been re-organized (source) and made more
   consistent. At least one valid Python program would work with
   the Boost::Python bindings, but not the pybind11 bindings. A
   memory-corruption problem in the Boost::Python bindings was resolved.
 - Steps in the UI now have a hook to undo any changes they have made
   to the live system, if the user cancels the installation.

## Modules ##
 - *keyboard* module undoes changes to the keyboard layout if the
   user cancels the installation (returning the system to whatever
   layout was in use when Calamares started). (#2377, #2431)
 - *locale* module undoes changes to the timezone. (#2377, #2431)
 - *partition* module stores a global storage value in luksPassphrase,
   for later modules that need to manipulate the encrypted partition.
   (thanks vincent, #2424)
 - *partition* module no longer clear (unmounts) a Ventoy device.
   (thanks TNE, #2427)
 - *partition* module has configurable exceptions for the clear-mounts
   (unmount) job. The exceptions have a few hard-coded "always included"
   entries, which now include Ventoy alongside some Fedora-specific entries.


## Feedback ##

If you experience an issue with Calamares, please tell us all about it
on the [**Calamares issue tracker**][1]. For a full change list, see
the full list of [issues closed][2] within the current generation (which is many releases).

[1]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/issues
[2]: https://github.com/calamares/calamares/milestone/83
